[Title]      The 10090 MHz Riddle
[Subtitle]   A Handbook on Decoding ADS-B and Other Mode S Signals
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the last ten years, aircraft surveillance technology has slowing moved from controller-based interrogations to independent broadcasts. The Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Broadcast (ADS-B) has become one of the most common methods for aircraft to transmit their state information such as identity, position, and speed. Like other Mode S communications, the ADS-B is also transmitted using the 1090 MHz transponder. The communication protocol for ADS-B is open, and the signal can be intercepted openly with a commercial grade receiver. Many applications and research studies in aviation have benefited from this data source.  However, very few open literature explains the basics principles of ADS-B, or even how ADS-B and other common Mode S signals can be decoded.

This book tackles this missing area of literature. It is an open access book that offers aeronautical researchers, engineers, and hobbyists a set practical approaches to understanding and making use of open ADS-B and other Mode S communications. The overall goal is to encourage readers to explore and make use of ADS-B data for their own research.

A review of existing aircraft surveillance technologies is first given. This includes the background on primary radar, secondary radar, Mode S, ADS-B and other related topics. This introduction is meant to offer readers who are new to this topic a general overview of the technology and common terminologies used in this book. After these basic concepts are introduced, this book walks the reader through the requirements and steps to set up devices and software to receive Mode S signals that are transmitted at the 1090 MHz frequency.

The core sections of the book follow. Detailed ADS-B downlink protocols are analyzed. The decoding of identification, position, velocity and operational status, as well as uncertainties and error control,  are explained and demonstrated. In addition to  ADS-B, other common types of Mode S communication are explained as an advanced extension. Signals from Mode S Elementary and Enhanced Surveillance services are then discussed. The inference and decoding of related information are also provided.

The last section of the book extends upon the decoding of ADS-B and common Mode S signals. An explanation of how an aircraft trajectory can be constructed based on decoded data is made. Finally, the severity of signal congestion is analyzed. Example applications of the aircraft surveillance data are also given in this section.
